246 JOHN MURRAY EXPEDITION

Fauvel has recently (1932) published under the title of “The Annelida Polycheta
of the Indian Museum ” a comprehensive paper on the Indian Ocean Polycheta, in which
he gives a diagnosis, with ample citations and lists of synonyms, of every species repre-
sented. He also provides a full list of the literature of the Indian Ocean Polycheta.
A large proportion of the species in the present collection is to be found in Fauvel’s Indian
Museum material, and to obviate reduplication I have simply given the reference to

Fauvel’s paper when the same species is present in both collections.
Apart from new forms, the following species were not represented in the Indian

Museum collection :

Pseudeurythoé ambigua.
Chlaia tumida.

C. violacea.

Harmothoé cornuta.

HZ. lunulata.
Nectocheta carol.

N. grimaldia.

Leanwra vulturis.
Sigalion mathilde.
Chrysopetalum occidentale.
Notophyllum splendens.
Lopadorhynchus brevis.
Rhynchonerella fulgens.
Vanadis formosa.

Tomopteris (Johnstonella) dunckert.

T. (J.) ducen

T. cavallin.

T. planktonis.

Syllis krohna.*

S. (Ehlersia) cornuta.*
Platynereis pulchella.

Nephthys inermis.

Glycera subenea.

Gomada eximia.

G. longicirrata.
Marphysa simplex.
Chetozone setosa.
Stylarioides xanthotrichus.
Brada villosa.
Flabelligera diplochaitos.
Maldane cristata.
Notoproctus pacificus.
Thelepus comatus.
Demonazx leucaspis.
Branchiomma mushaensis.
Euratella puncturata.
Hydroides exaltata var. vesiculosa.
HH. homoceros.
Vermiliopsis glandigera.*
V. acanthophora.*

V. multicristata.
Placostequs tridentatus.

The Amphinomids are represented by nine species, among which there is a small

eyeless Notopygos from a depth of over 1200 m., a new species devoid of a caruncle of
Fauvel’s recent genus Pseudeurythoé, and a representative of Pseudewrythoé ambigua
previously known only from the Panama region. The Polynoids yielded several deep-
water examples, one of which I have attributed to Harmothoé cornuta and another to
Allmaniella ; there is a new Harmothoé with smooth dorsal and upper ventral bristles,
and two pelagic members of the family are represented, Nectocheta caroli and N. grimaldit.
Among the Polyodontids there is a young Polyodontes which appears to combine the
characters of P. melanonotus and P. mazillosus. The single Chrysopetalid agrees with
Johnson’s Ch. occidentale from the Californian coast, which is probably the same as the

* Those marked with an asterisk are represented in Fauvel’s (1930) ‘ Littoral Fauna of Krusadai
Island, Gulf of Manaar ’.

 
