POLYCH ATA 247

European Ch. debile Grube. Among the Phyllodocids Grube’s pelagic Mediterranean
Lopadorhynchus brevis is represented, and also a Lopadorhynchus with very conspicuous
nuchal organs.

There are four species of Tomopterids, among which is Tomopteris (Johnstonella)
duceii, remarkable for having three distinct kinds of pedal glands and a sting.

There are two new species and one new genus of Syllids, the new genus being distin-
guished by having over part of the body slender, moniliform dorsal cirri alternating with
smooth, swollen dorsal cirri; the new species has dorsal cirri with only three to four
articles.

Among the Nereids the new N. longilingulis has extraordinarily long, cirriform pedal
languets, and I am able to relate a curious heteronereid showing the polyscalma type of
modification to Platynereis pulchella.

There are five species of Glycerids, and among them there is an example from a depth
of over 1519 m. of the Magellan, cold-water Goniada eximia. The Eunicids are represented
by 21 species, among which the new deep-water Eunice validobranchiata has an extra-
ordinary development of gill. Fauvel’s recent E. investigatoris was also obtained from a
depth of over 1000 m. There is a new deep-water Onuphis with ramified woolly gills and
curious, forked, anterior hooks. There are two new species of the rare Rhamphobrachium,
one of which has only the first two feet modified, and a new Lumbrinereis with long,
paired, cirriform pedal ligules and compound anterior hooks.

The Magelonids are represented by a pelagic post-larva, and among the Cirratulids
there is an example of the northern European Chetozone setosa not previously recorded
from tropical waters.

The Chlorhemids have five species, among which is a new Stylarioides entirely devoid
of hooks and an example of the rare deep-water genus, Ilyphagus.

The Maldanids include specimens of Treadwell’s Californian Maldane cristata and
Moore’s Notoproctus pacificus, previously known from the neighbourhood of Vancouver
Island, a new variety from below the 1000 m. line of Maldane sarst, and a new Petaloproctus
with a cirrigerous anal plate. Among the Terebellids is an example of Thelepus comatus
previously known from Chile and the Panama region. The Sabellids include examples
of the curious Euratella puncturata known from the West African coast, and among the
Serpulids there are a new variety of Spirobranchus giganteus with small chitinous hooks
on the operculum, and an example of the European Placostegus tridentatus.

Fauvel has already called attention to the number of species common to the Indian
Ocean and to the Atlantic and Mediterranean, and has often emphasized the fact that
many Polychzetes have a cosmopolitan distribution.

It is perhaps worth calling attention to the great variety of species obtained at two
stations, St. 45, South Arabian Coast, depth 38 m., bottom lithothamnion, and St. 53,
South Arabian Coast, depth 13-5 m., bottom rock, shingle, shells and lithothamnion.
Examples of no less than 38 species were taken at one or both of these two stations.

 
