mi BHL

Biodiversity Heritage Library

https’ nw biodiversitylibrary.org/

‘Scientific reports / John Murray Expedition 1933-34.
London :8M(NH)

hitps:/ www biodiversitylibrary orgibibliography/t 12110
v.A(1936-1938): https:iwww.biodiversitylibrary.orgitem/195815
Page(s): Page 243, Page 244, Page 245, Page 246, Page 247

Holding Institution: Natural History Museum Library, London
‘Sponsored by: Natural History Museum Library, London

‘pnwosohereybay ght 207040016505 pt
This page intentionally left blank.
POLYCH ATA

BY

Cc. C. A. MONRO, M.A.
(Assistant Keeper in the Department of Zoology).

WITH TWENTY-EIGHT TEXT-FIGURES.

INTRODUCTION
Tue present collection was obtained in the Red Sea and the Arabian Sea, in the
Gulfs of Aden and Oman, off the South Arabian Coast, and in the Zanzibar and Maldive
areas. Except for a few nereids taken on the shore of the South Arabian Coast, there
was no littoral collection made,- but all the material was obtained from coastal or

deep-water positions.
There follows a list of species :

Family AMPHINoMIDa.

Euphrosyne foliosa Audouin and Milne-

Edwards.
Benthoscolex caecus Horst.
Notopygos sp.
Pseudeurythoé acarunculata n. sp.
P. ambigua (Monro).
Eurythoé complanata (Pallas).
Chloeia tumida Baird.
C. fusca McIntosh.
C. violacea Horst.

Family ApHropitipa.
Latmatonice producta Grube var. bentha-
liana McIntosh.
Aphrodite talpa Quatrefages.
Hermione hystrix (Savigny).
Aphrogenia alba Kinberg.
LV, 8:

Family Potynom.

Harmothoé cornuta (Potts).

H. arabica n. sp.

H. lunulata (Delle Chiaje).
Hololepidella commensalis Willey.
Eunoé pallida (Ehlers).
Allmaniella sp.

Nectocheta caroli Fauvel.

N. grimaldii Marenzeller.

Family SicaLronrpa.

Sigalion mathilde Audouin and Milne-
Edwards.
Leanira vulturis Horst.
L. japonica McIntosh.
Buthalanessa djiboutiensis (Gravier).
32,
244 JOHN MURRAY EXPEDITION

Family PotyopontTIp&.

Polyodontes melanonotus (Grube).
Polyodontes sp.
Panthalis cerstedi Kinberg.

Family CHRYSOPETALID.

Chrysopetalum occidentale H. P. Johnson.

Family Paytuopocipa.

Phyllodoce madeirensis Langerhans.
Notophyllum splendens (Schmarda).
Eulaha tenax Grube.

Lopadorhynchus uncinatus Fauvel.

L. brevis Grube.

L. brevis Grube var. nuchalis var. nov.

Family Actor.

Rhynchonerella fulgens Greeff.
Vanadis formosa Claparéde.

Family Tomorreripa.

Tomopteris (Johnstonella) dunckeri Rosa.
T. (Johnstonella) duccii Rosa.

T. cavallii Rosa.

T. planktonis Apstein.

Family Hestonip.

Hesione intertexta Grube.

Family Sy~uma.

Syllis variegata Grube.

S. gracilis Grube.

S. krohnii Ehlers.

S. brachychata Schmarda.

S. curticirris n. sp.

Syllis sp.

S. (Haplosyllis) spongicola Grube.

S. (Ehlersia) cornuta Rathke.
Trypanosyllis zebra Grube.
Parasphzrosyllis indica gen. et sp. nov.

Family Nereis.

Nereis jackson Kinberg.

N. zonata Malmgren var. persica Fauvel.
N. longilingulis n. sp.

Platynereis pulchella Gravier.
Ceratonereis mirabilis Kinberg.
Leonnates jousseaumet Gravier.

Family NepHTHypip&.

Nephthys dibranchis Grube.
N. inermis Ehlers.

Family GuyceRIpA.

Glycera rouxii Audouin and Milne-Edwards.

G. subenea Grube.

G. lancadive Schmarda.

Goniada multidentata Arwidsson var. indica
var. nov.

G. eximia Ehlers.

G. longicirrata Arwidsson.

Family Eunicipa.

Eunice indica Kinberg. ;

E. australis Quatrefages.

E. antennata Savigny.

E. tentaculata Quatrefages.

E. validobranchiata n. sp.

E. inwestigatoris Fauvel.

Marphysa simplex Crossland.

Lysidice collaris Grube.

Onuphis furcatoseta n. sp.

O. aucklandensis Augener.

O. eremita Audouin and Milne-Edwards.

Onuphis sp.

Diopatra neapolitana Delle Chiaje.

Hyalinecia tubicola (O. F. Miiller).

Rhamphobrachium bipes n. sp.

R. diversosetosum n. sp.

Lumbrinereis latreilli Audouin and Milne-
Edwards. :

L. impatiens Claparéde.

L. heteropoda Marenzeller.

L. quasibifilaris n. sp.

Drilonereis filwm Claparéde,

 
 

POLYCHATA 245

Family Sriontp2.
Prionospio pinnata Ehlers.

Family MacrLonipa.
Magelona sp.

Family Caaroprerip®.

Phyllochetopterus sp.

Family Crratuiipa.

Cirratulus sp.
Chetozone setosa Malmgren.

Family CHLorHa&MIDz.

Stylarioides xanthotrichus (Schmarda).
S. hamocarens n. sp.

Brada villosa (Rathke).

Flabelligera diplochattos (Otto).
Ilyphagus hirsutus n. sp.

Family Caprreniipa.

Notomastus latericeus Sars.
Dasybranchus caducus Grube.

Family Matpanip.
Maldane cristata Treadwell.

M. sarsi Malmgren var. tropica var. nov.

Notoproctus pacificus (Moore).
Clymene (Prazillella) gracilis (Sars).
Clymene sp.

Clymenella sp.

Nicomache sp.

Petaloproctus cirratus n. sp.

Family Ownnup.
Owenia fusiformis Delle Chiaje.

Family SaBeLLaRipa&.

Sabellaria spinulosa Leuckart.
S. spinulosa Leuckart var. alcocki Gravier.

Family AmPHARETID®.

Amphicters gunneri Sars.

Family TEREBELLID.

Thelepus comatus (Grube).
Nicolea gracilibranchis (Grube).
Polymnia nebulosa (Montagu).
Loimia medusa Savigny.

Pista herpini Fauvel.

P. typha (Grube).

P. robustiseta Caullery.

Family SaBeLuip2.

Demonax leucaspis Kinberg.
Dasychone cingulata Grube.
Branchiomma mushaensis Gravier.
Buratella puncturata (Augener).

Family SereuLipa.

Serpula vermicularis L.

Hydroides exaltata (Marenzeller) var. vesi-
culosa Fauvel.

H. homoceros Pixell.

Spirobranchus giganteus Pallas.

S. giganteus var. arabica var. nov.

S. maldivensis Pixell.

Vermiliopsis glandigera Gravier.

V. acanthophora Augener.

V. multicristata (Philippi).

Placostegus tridentatus (Fabricius).

Ditrupa arietina (O. F. Miller).

The total number of species or varieties is 133, belonging to 83 genera. The
proportion of new forms is high, for there are 1 new genus, 13 new species and 4 new
varieties, and this is probably to be explained by the fact that much of the material was

obtained from very considerable depths.
246 JOHN MURRAY EXPEDITION

Fauvel has recently (1932) published under the title of “The Annelida Polycheta
of the Indian Museum ” a comprehensive paper on the Indian Ocean Polycheta, in which
he gives a diagnosis, with ample citations and lists of synonyms, of every species repre-
sented. He also provides a full list of the literature of the Indian Ocean Polycheta.
A large proportion of the species in the present collection is to be found in Fauvel’s Indian
Museum material, and to obviate reduplication I have simply given the reference to

Fauvel’s paper when the same species is present in both collections.
Apart from new forms, the following species were not represented in the Indian

Museum collection :

Pseudeurythoé ambigua.
Chlaia tumida.

C. violacea.

Harmothoé cornuta.

HZ. lunulata.
Nectocheta carol.

N. grimaldia.

Leanwra vulturis.
Sigalion mathilde.
Chrysopetalum occidentale.
Notophyllum splendens.
Lopadorhynchus brevis.
Rhynchonerella fulgens.
Vanadis formosa.

Tomopteris (Johnstonella) dunckert.

T. (J.) ducen

T. cavallin.

T. planktonis.

Syllis krohna.*

S. (Ehlersia) cornuta.*
Platynereis pulchella.

Nephthys inermis.

Glycera subenea.

Gomada eximia.

G. longicirrata.
Marphysa simplex.
Chetozone setosa.
Stylarioides xanthotrichus.
Brada villosa.
Flabelligera diplochaitos.
Maldane cristata.
Notoproctus pacificus.
Thelepus comatus.
Demonazx leucaspis.
Branchiomma mushaensis.
Euratella puncturata.
Hydroides exaltata var. vesiculosa.
HH. homoceros.
Vermiliopsis glandigera.*
V. acanthophora.*

V. multicristata.
Placostequs tridentatus.

The Amphinomids are represented by nine species, among which there is a small

eyeless Notopygos from a depth of over 1200 m., a new species devoid of a caruncle of
Fauvel’s recent genus Pseudeurythoé, and a representative of Pseudewrythoé ambigua
previously known only from the Panama region. The Polynoids yielded several deep-
water examples, one of which I have attributed to Harmothoé cornuta and another to
Allmaniella ; there is a new Harmothoé with smooth dorsal and upper ventral bristles,
and two pelagic members of the family are represented, Nectocheta caroli and N. grimaldit.
Among the Polyodontids there is a young Polyodontes which appears to combine the
characters of P. melanonotus and P. mazillosus. The single Chrysopetalid agrees with
Johnson’s Ch. occidentale from the Californian coast, which is probably the same as the

* Those marked with an asterisk are represented in Fauvel’s (1930) ‘ Littoral Fauna of Krusadai
Island, Gulf of Manaar ’.

 
POLYCH ATA 247

European Ch. debile Grube. Among the Phyllodocids Grube’s pelagic Mediterranean
Lopadorhynchus brevis is represented, and also a Lopadorhynchus with very conspicuous
nuchal organs.

There are four species of Tomopterids, among which is Tomopteris (Johnstonella)
duceii, remarkable for having three distinct kinds of pedal glands and a sting.

There are two new species and one new genus of Syllids, the new genus being distin-
guished by having over part of the body slender, moniliform dorsal cirri alternating with
smooth, swollen dorsal cirri; the new species has dorsal cirri with only three to four
articles.

Among the Nereids the new N. longilingulis has extraordinarily long, cirriform pedal
languets, and I am able to relate a curious heteronereid showing the polyscalma type of
modification to Platynereis pulchella.

There are five species of Glycerids, and among them there is an example from a depth
of over 1519 m. of the Magellan, cold-water Goniada eximia. The Eunicids are represented
by 21 species, among which the new deep-water Eunice validobranchiata has an extra-
ordinary development of gill. Fauvel’s recent E. investigatoris was also obtained from a
depth of over 1000 m. There is a new deep-water Onuphis with ramified woolly gills and
curious, forked, anterior hooks. There are two new species of the rare Rhamphobrachium,
one of which has only the first two feet modified, and a new Lumbrinereis with long,
paired, cirriform pedal ligules and compound anterior hooks.

The Magelonids are represented by a pelagic post-larva, and among the Cirratulids
there is an example of the northern European Chetozone setosa not previously recorded
from tropical waters.

The Chlorhemids have five species, among which is a new Stylarioides entirely devoid
of hooks and an example of the rare deep-water genus, Ilyphagus.

The Maldanids include specimens of Treadwell’s Californian Maldane cristata and
Moore’s Notoproctus pacificus, previously known from the neighbourhood of Vancouver
Island, a new variety from below the 1000 m. line of Maldane sarst, and a new Petaloproctus
with a cirrigerous anal plate. Among the Terebellids is an example of Thelepus comatus
previously known from Chile and the Panama region. The Sabellids include examples
of the curious Euratella puncturata known from the West African coast, and among the
Serpulids there are a new variety of Spirobranchus giganteus with small chitinous hooks
on the operculum, and an example of the European Placostegus tridentatus.

Fauvel has already called attention to the number of species common to the Indian
Ocean and to the Atlantic and Mediterranean, and has often emphasized the fact that
many Polychzetes have a cosmopolitan distribution.

It is perhaps worth calling attention to the great variety of species obtained at two
stations, St. 45, South Arabian Coast, depth 38 m., bottom lithothamnion, and St. 53,
South Arabian Coast, depth 13-5 m., bottom rock, shingle, shells and lithothamnion.
Examples of no less than 38 species were taken at one or both of these two stations.

 
