mi BHL

Biodiversity Heritage Library

http:/www.biodiversitylibrary.orgi

Mittheilungen aus der Zoologischen Station zu Neapel.
Leipzig :Withelm Engetmann,-1921
hitp’/wwn.biodiversityibrary.org/bibliography/8813

bd.17 (1904-1906): hiip:iwww. biodiversityibrary.orgitern’37405,

Page(s): Page 411, Page 412, Page 413, Page 414, Page 415, Page
416, Page 417, Page 418, Page 419, Page 420, Page 421, Page 422,
Page 423, Page 424, Page 425, Page 426, Page 427, Page 428, Page
429, Page 430, Page 431, Page 432

Contributed by: Harvard University, MCZ, Ernst Mayr Library
‘Sponsored by: Harvard University, Museum of Comparative Zoology,
Ernst Mayr Library

Iepiiwntaodverstyibery ppetomnaeannsTeas
The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 419

end, close to the antero-lateral corner, becomes sharply defined.
The antennal notch is more widely open than in the specimen
formerly figured but this is doubtless a sexual character. The
antero-lateral angle is less acute in the present specimens, but this
character also varies with age and sex and is moreover subject to
great apparent alteration with a slight change in the position in
which the specimen is viewed. The antennules, antenne and
legs are all a little more slender than in the immature male from
which these appendages were figured. The antennal flagella are
not complete in any of the specimens but their appearance suggests
that they do not attain the length of the body. The sides of the
abdominal somites are not grooved for their reception. The uropods
(fig. 12) have the peduncle shorter and the rami longer than in the
Irish specimens. Thus while in immature males of both forms the
uropods are longer by about 1/, than the last two somites together,
in the Mediterranean specimen the endopod is nearly equal to the
peduncle (24:27) but in the Irish specimen it is not 2/; of that length
(16:27). In the adult male the endopod is nearly */, of the length
of the peduncle. In the shape and proportions of the segments of
the other appendages no noteworthy differences from the types of
C. helge appear to exist.

Occurrence. — Station 17, 18, 39, 44. Depth 950—
1100 metres.

Procampylaspis.

This genus was founded by Bonnier for the reception of two
forms which he regarded as distinct species, P. armata and P. echi-
nata. J have already suggested (Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904
N: 1 [1905] p. 33) that these two species must be united, the first
being described from a young male and the second from an adult
male specimen. A new species occurs in the present collection and
is described below.

Procampylaspis armata Bonnier (pl. 27 figs. 13—20).

P. armata, Bonnier, Ann. Univ. Lyon Tome 26 1896, Campagne
du Caudan p. 541 pl. 29 fig. 1 [Immature G).

P. echinata, Bonnier, |. ¢. p. 544, pl. 29 fig. 2 [Adult g}.

Description of immature female (figs. 13, 14). Total
length 3.5 mm.

i.
7
420 W. T. Calman

Carapace over 2/s of the total length, slightly compressed, oval
in outline as seen from above. Seen from the side the dorsal
outline is moderately arched and the short pseudorostrum is sharply
turned upwards and nearly vertically truncated. The antennal notch
is small but distinct and the antero-lateral corner is produced into
a small blunt tooth, not broadly rounded as in Bonnier’s figure. —
The dorsal surface is not keeled but immediately behind the middle —
of its length it bears a strong median tooth. 5 4

There is no eye but a narrow ocular lobe with parallel sides
extends nearly to the end of the pseudorostrum. Seen from the side —
it is elevated above the dorsal outline towards the tip where it —
carries a pair of small tubercles.

The carapace is rather thin and transparent, with a faintly,
marked vermiculate texture.

The first leg-bearing somite is completely exposed. On the
dorsal surface its posterior edge is raised into a transverse lamina
produced and curving forwards in the middle line where it forms
a bifid tooth overlapping the hind margin of the carapace. The
second somite is produced into a similar tooth not so prominent and
not curved forwards. The pleural plates of the thoracic somites ai
unarmed, except for a few small granules. The last two somites
are granular on the dorsal surface.

The abdominal somites are all, except the last, beset wi
granules, especially on the dorsal and ventral surfaces.
penultimate somite (fig. 14) is hardly inflated anteriorly.
peduncle of the uropods (fig. 14) is about equal in length to
last two somites together and is twice the length of the endopod.
The latter bears three rather long spines on its inner edge and ¢
strong terminal spine with a small spinule external to its bas
The exopod is shorter than the endopod and has a long and slend
terminal spine.

Adult female. Only a single ovigerous female is in
collection and it is in a condition too bad for description or figurin
The somites of the abdomen however differ from those in immatut
specimens in being nearly smooth.

Adult male (figs. 16, 17) total length 4 mm.

Carapace a little less than 2/; of the total length, less d
than in the female. The antennal notch is shallow and wide
open and the antero-lateral corner is hardly produced. The medi
dorsal tooth is much less prominent than in the female, and

 
  
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 421

addition to it there is on the dorsal surface near the hind margin
of the carapace a pair of small teeth. On each side of the cara-
pace, a little way above the lower edge a row of about six teeth
runs forward from the hind margin for about 1/, of the length of
the carapace. The ocular lobe (fig. 18) resembles that of the female.
The texture of the carapace is coarsely cellular, as figured by
Bonnier in P. echinata. The first and second leg-bearing somites
are not produced into dorsal teeth as they are in the female but
there is a pair of tubercles on the dorsal surface of each of the
somites from the second to the fifth. The pleural plates of the last
four somites are expanded and each is armed with a marginal row
of spiniform teeth.

The first five abdominal somites are granulated on the dorsal
surface, the granules becoming spiniform laterally where a very
distinct row above and a less distinct one below define on each
somite a lateral groove apparently for the reception of the antennal
flagellum. The last segment of the antennal pedunele (fig. 19) is
nearly twice as long as the preceding.

The peduncle of the uropods (fig. 20) is longer by nearly 1/,
than the last two somites together and has on its inner edge a series
of plumose set increasing in length towards the distal end. The
endopod is a little less than half the length of the peduncle with
eight spines on its inner edge. The terminal spine is slender. The
exopod is shorter than the endopod.

Young males agree in general characters with the female
described above. The carapace shows a fine vermiculate texture.
_ Remarks. — The females and young males described above
agree with Bonnrer’s figures and description of his P. armata with
sufficient closeness to leave little doubt of their identity with his
species. That the adult males belong to the same species is almost
certain, and their identification with Bonnter’s P. echinata is highly
probable, though there are some important differences from BonnieR’s
account. He describes the surface of the carapace as presenting
“ni poils ni épine @’aucune sorte” and he figures the upper surface
without any trace of an ocular lobe. {In view of the great difficulty
of observing such characters in specimens coated as they often are
with mud I think the differences may be neglected at least until
Specimens agreeing more closely with Bonnier’s account are dis-
covered. The case is somewhat complicated however by the aberrant
characters of the specimens from the West of Ireland which I have

hs
422 W. T. Calman

referred to this species (Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904 N: 1
[1905] p. 33). The Irish specimens are smaller in size and the
texture of the carapace in adults and young of both sexes is coarsely
*cellular® as in the adult males described above. The median
dorsal spine in all the specimens which have preserved it unbroken
is bifid at the tip while in the few perfect Mediterranean specimens
it is simple. I can observe no other differences, but the Irish
specimens are coated with mud and not in a favourable state for
examination. For the present they may be referred to the same
species.

Occurrence. — Stations 18, 25, 26, 39, 44, 57. Depth 200—
1100 metres.

   
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
     
 
   
   

Procampylaspis Bonnieri nu. sp. (pl. 27 fig. 21—27).

Description of adult Female (fig. 21 and 22), total length
2.3 mm.

Carapace a little more than 2/; of total length, inflated,
narrowed in front as seen from above. Seen from the side the
dorsal outline is moderately arched, with a slight depression near
the posterior end. The pseudorostrum is a little longer and more
acute than in P. armata. The antero-lateral corner is serrated with
three or four fine teeth. There are no teeth or spines on the sur-
face of the carapace. There is no distinct ocular lobe. The cephalic
lobe is produced into a small triangular median process in front of
which the lateral plates meet for the whole length of the pseudo-
rostrum.

The first and second leg-bearing somites are produced dorsally _
into bifid laminar teeth like those of P. avmata, that of the second
somite however being curved forwards like the first. The pleural
plates of the thoracie somites are expanded, rounded and unarmed.

The abdominal somites are smooth. The penultimate !
somite (fig. 23) is widest at about its anterior third, narrowing in —
front and behind. {

The peduncle of the uropods (fig. 23) is equal in length to —
the last two somites together and is 1'/, times as long as the endo- |
pod. The latter bears three spines on its inner edge and the
terminal spine is long and curved. The exopod is little more 1
3, the length of the endopod.

Adult male (figs. 24 and 25), total length 2.8 mm. Resemblin;
in general form the male of P. armata. The posterior part of
The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 423

dorsal surface of the carapace is occupied by a group of rather
large curved spines (about 10) not quite symmetrically arranged on
each side of the middle line. On each side a little way above the
lower margin of the carapace a closely set row of spines extends
from the antero-lateral corner to the hind margin. There are a
pair of small spines at the tip of the pseudorostrum above, There
is no ocular lobe except for a very small pointed median process
on the front of the cephalic lobe.

The texture of the carapace is coarsely cellular.

There is a pair of dorsal spines on each of the last three
thoracic somites. The pleural plates of the last four somites are
expanded and armed with marginal teeth. The abdominal somites
are smooth and each of the first four bears near the anterior end
a pair of straight spines sloping forwards on the dorsal surface and
a pair of small sharp spines on each side. The outline of the fifth
(fig. 27) somite is similar to that of the female. The last two
segments of the antennal peduncle (fig. 26) are subequal in length.

The peduncle of the uropods (fig. 27) is equal to or a very
little longer than the last two somites together and has a series of
short sete on its inner edge. The endopod is 2/3 of the length of
the peduncle and has six spines on its inner edge. The exopod is
about 4/; of the length of the endopod. Young specimens of
both sexes agree in general characters with the female.

Remarks. — This species is distinguished from the preceding
in both sexes by the absence of the ocular lobe, by the slight but
characteristic and constant difference in the outline of the penultimate
‘somite and by the relatively longer rami of the uropods. In the
female the absence of the dorsal spine of the carapace and in the
male the different armature of the carapace and abdomen are well
marked distinctive features. The appendages agree, except in some
trifling details, with those of P. armata.

Occurrence. — Stations 17, 18, 26, 30, 39, 44. Depth
950—1200 metres.

Campylaspis glabra G. O. Sars.
C. glabra, G. O. Sars, Arch. Math. Nat. 4. Bd. 1879 p. 77, pls. 44—
47; id. Crust. Norway Vol. 3 1900 p. 86, pl. 58.
The specimens referred to this species are, for the most part,
immature. Even nearly adult specimens however are smaller than
the Mediterranean specimens recorded by Prof. Sars, a female with

ie
424 W. T. Calman

    
 
   

e |
developing brood pouch measuring 2.25 mm. and an apparently ain
male 3.0 mm. in total length.

Occurring. — Stations 8, 25, 29,39. Depth 100—1100 nett

Campylaspis verrucosa G. O. Sars. ;
C. verrucosa, G. O. Sars, Crust. Norway Vol. 3 1900 p. 90, pl. 63;
Caiman, Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904 N:1 (1905)
p. 35
Among numerous small and immature specimens resembling
closely those which I have recorded from the West of Ireland we:
two females with developed brood-pouch (one of them identified
Prof. Sars) and an apparently adult male. The larger of the
females is not quite 4.5 mm. in total length and the male is a lit
smaller. Sars gives the length of Norwegian specimens as 5.5 mi
for females and 6.5 for males.
Oceurrence. — Stations 17, 18, 25, 26, 30, 39, 44. Depth
200—1200 metres.

Campylaspis suleata G. O. Sars.

C. sulcata, G. O. Sars, Crust. Norway Vol. 3 1900 p. 86, pl. 59. —
Occurrence. — Stations [9 and] 25. Depth 130—200 metres.

Campylaspis macrophthalma G. O. Sars.
C. macrophthalma, G. O. Sars, Arch. Math. Nat. 4. Bd. 1879 p. &
pls. 48, 49.

A young female specimen was identified by Prof. Sars, and
agrees well with his figure and description quoted above.
is, on the anterior part of the carapace, external to the fronto-latei
suture, and just above the transverse ridge connecting the late
keels, a very distinct tubercle hardly indicated by Prof. Sars, a
the posterior ends of the upper keels do not turn forward as th
seem to do in his figure.

The single male specimen which I suppose to belong to ft
species is in bad condition and therefore I do not attempt to figi
it. It resembles rather closely Sars’ figure of the male of C.
data (Crust. Norway Vol. 3 pl. 59) but appears to differ in the gre:
length of the ocular lobe, which reaches nearly to the end of
pseudorostrum.

Occurrence. — Stations 9 and 25. Depth 130—200 me

Distribution. — Messina, 20 fathoms (Sars).
The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 425

Campylaspis vitrea n. sp. (pl. 28 figs. 23—34).

Description of sub-adult Female (figs. 28 and 29). Total
length 4.7 mm.

The carapace considerably exceeds half the total length and
is much elevated posteriorly. As in C. macrophthalma Sars the
side of the carapace bears two oblique keels, which, however, are
here elevated into laminar crests. At about 1/, the length of the
carapace from its hinder margin the upper lateral keels are con-
nected with each other across the dorsal surface by a straight
transverse keel and from the junction on each side a short keel
running downwards and backwards joins the lower lateral keel.
The transverse keel and the two short connecting keels form three
sides of a roughly quadrangular area sloping downwards and back-
wards, the posterior side of which is formed by a ridge running
just above the hinder margin of the carapace and forming, when
viewed from above, two broadly rounded lobes divided by a median
notch. Anteriorly the upper lateral keels curve inwards towards
the pseudorostrum without forming any distinct angle as they do in
C. macrophthalma. The short vertical ridge which in the species
named connects the two lateral ridges anteriorly is present, though
less prominent than the others. The posterior quadrangular area
mentioned above and the areas between the lateral keels on each
side are distinctly concave. The portion of the dorsal surface in
front of the transverse keel is nearly flat and does not rise above
the upper lateral keel as seen from the side. There is no eye and
-the ocular lobe is represented by a short and narrow process in
front of which the pseudorostral plates meet for about 1/, of the
length of the carapace. The pseudorostrum is long, rather
acutely pointed as seen from the side, with the dorsal outline
slightly convex. The antennal notch is obsolete and the antero-
lateral angle obtuse. All the keels of the carapace are finely
serrated.

The first three leg-bearing somites have transverse crests
dorsally; the last two have each a pair of cristiform teeth on the
dorsal surface.

The abdominal somites (fig. 30) are ornamented with thin
longitudinal ridges or crests which are finely and somewhat irre-
gularly serrate. The first four somites have paired dorsal, lateral
and yentro-lateral ridges. On the fifth somite the arrangement of

 
 

426 W. T. Calman

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
 
   

the ridges is more complex, those on the anterior half of the
somite conforming to the plan of the preceding somites while the
posterior half has only a median dorsal and a pair of ventro-lateral
ridges. The last somite has a short median dorsal and a pair of
lateral ridges.

The appendages differ very little from those of C. macroph-
thalma as figured by Sars. The antennules have the second segment
of the peduncle distinctly longer than the third. The first legs
fig. 31) do not reach the antero-lateral angle of the carapace, but
their distal segments are relatively a little longer than in C. ma-
crophthalma. The second legs (fig. 32) are distinguished by the
great length of the terminal segment which is about */; of the whole
length of the limb. The remaining legs (fig. 33) are a little longer
and more slender than are those of C. macrophthalma but do not
differ in the relative proportions of the segments.

The uropods (fig. 34) are longer than in C. macrophthalma,
the peduncle being more than 24/, times the length of the last
somite and a little more than twice the length of the sub-equal
rami.

The integument over the whole of the body and limbs is very
thin and semitransparent allowing the outlines of the internal organs
to be seen.

Male. A single young male shows no marked differences in
external characters from the females described above.

Remarks. — This species resembles C. macrophthalma ut is
at once distinguished from that species by the different form of the
carapace, especially by the transverse ridge on the posterior part,
and by the ornamentation of the abdominal somites as well as by
the thin and semitransparent integument. 4

Occurrence. — Stations 18, 26, 39. Depth 950—1100 metres.

anal

Campylaspis spinosa x. sp. (pl. 28 figs. 35—43).
Description of sub-adult Female (figs. 35 and 36). Total —
length 3.1 mm.
The carapace is little more than half the total length and is

not very strongly arched above. The pseudorostrum is sharply up-
turned, its upper margin as seen from the side nearly at rig!
angles to the sloping anterior part of the dorsal surface of th
carapace. There is no eye and the ocular lobe is reduced to
narrow process reaching nearly to the tip of the pseudorost
The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 427

[he antennal notch is obsolete and the lower margin curves upwards
o the pseudorostrum with hardly an indication of the antero-lateral
mgle. The whole surface of the carapace is set with small spines,
rather widely spaced, while on the dorsal surface on each side is a longi-
udinal row of about eight strong spines extending from the posterior
margin on to the side of the pseudorostrum. There are about six
very long sete on the dorsal surface. The anterior part of the
lower margin bears a series of curved spines. The first leg-bearing
somite is exposed only on the dorsal surface. The following
thoracic somites like those of the abdomen bear each a pair of
spines on the dorsal surface. The fifth abdominal somite has a
median dorsal spine about the middle of its length and the sixth,
which is distinctly broader than the preceding, has three spines on
the dorsal surface. The antennules (broken off in the specimen
figured) are rather long and stout, but appear to resemble those of
C. rubicunda as figured by Sars.

The mouth-parts resemble those of C. rubicunda very closely
but the molar process of the mandible is a little longer and more
slender, the palp of the maxillule carries two sete, and the maxilla
have six sete. The branchial apparatus is considerably reduced,
only three lobules being visible. The second maxillipeds (fig. 38)
differ from those of all species of the genus hitherto described in
having the ischium distinct; the terminal segment carries three
strong spines. Third maxillipeds (fig. 39) have strong teeth on the
margins of most of the segments, the merus is not expanded, hardly
broader than the succeeding segment and equal to the two sueceed-
ing segments in length. The plumose set on the end of the
merus extend to the tip of the limb.

The first legs (fig. 40) are moderately slender, the merus consi-
derably less than half the total length. The second legs (fig. 41)
have the merus less than ‘/; of the total length, the carpus serrated
on the outer edge and the dactylus equal in length to the two
preceding segments. The remaining legs (fig. 42) are rather stout.
Tn the third and fifth pairs the carpus bears two and in the fourth
three long sete.

The uropods (fig. 43) are slender and about equal in length
to the last four somites. The peduncle is more than twice the length
of the last somite, its margins not distinctly serrate. The exopod
is very slightly longer than the endopod and about half the length

of the peduncle. The endopod is armed with four spines which,
Mittheilungen a. d. Zool. Station zu Neapel. Bd. 17. 29

ie
¥

428 W. T. Calman

  
    
   
    
    
  
  
  
  

as well as the terminal spine of the exopod, are long, slender, and
serrate or plumose.

Male. A male specimen 3.7 mm. long which I refer to this
species is not in sufficiently good condition to be figured. The —
carapace is less deep than in the female, the pseudorostrum more
horizontal and the spines on the surface of the carapace mostly —
reduced to tubercles. The spines on the dorsal surface of the ab-
dominal somites however are even longer than in the female.

Remarks. This species differs remarkably from all the de-
scribed species of the genus in the spinose armature of the carapace. |
Nevertheless the structure of the mouthparts shows it to be a true —
Campylaspis, though it appears to be exceptional in having the |
ischium of the second maxillipeds distinct and in the imperfect
development of the branchial apparatus.

Occurrence. — Stations 18, 26, 44. Depths 950— 1100 noha i

Family Lampropidae.

Hemilamprops cristata G. O. Sars. i

H. cristata, G. O. Sars, Crust. Norway Vol. 3 1900 p. 25, pl. 18. #

Four specimens are referred to this species. They are all very
young and are badly preserved.

Occurrence. — Station 25. Depth 200 metres.

Family Platyaspidae.

Platyaspis typica G. O. Sars.
P. typica, G. O. Sars, Crust. Norway Vol. 3 1900 p. 27, pls. 19, 2
Catman, Fisheries Ireland Sc. Invest. 1904 N: 1 (190
p- 42.

As I have already noted, these specimens show more disti
than do those from the West of Ireland the double dorsal keel
the posterior thoracic and anterior abdominal somites. 4

Occurrence. — Stations 17, [18], 39, 44. Depth 950-1100 metr

Family Diastylidae.

Diastylis insignis G. O. Sars. ul
D. insignis, G. O. Sars, Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl. 9. Bd. No.
1871 p. 34, pl. 14.
This page intentionally left blank.
The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 429

The specimens which I have referred to this species are very
agmentary and there may be some little doubt as to the identi-
sation. Dr. Lo Branco has recorded the species from Station 57,
1 the evidence of a specimen which may have been better preserved
an any of those seen by me}.

Occurrence. — Stations 26, 39,57. Depths 1000-1100 metres.

Diastylis capreensis nu. sp. (pl. 28 figs. 44, 45).
Description of young Female (fig. 44). Total length 5.2 mm.
The carapace is less than 1/; of the total length, inflated,

ith the dorsal surface strongly arched and declivous anteriorly.
he pseudorostrum is moderately long, horizontal and acute. There
-no eye. The surface of the carapace carries a number of long
yines varying a little in arrangement in different specimens and
ot always symmetrical on the two sides. They are arranged on
ie dorsal surface in two longitudinal rows which diverge widely
anteriorly. The largest of these spines are a pair placed on the
ighest point of the dorsal surface and one on each side just behind
1e base of the rostrum. In addition there are a few spines on the
nterior part of the side of the carapace. The lower margin is
ecupied by a series of teeth becoming spiniform anteriorly.

The last thoracic somite has the postero-lateral angles produced
ito spiniform teeth projecting downwards, and has two pairs of
enticles on the dorsal surface. The first abdominal somite has one
air and the last two somites have several denticles on the dorsal
urface.

The telson (fig. 45) is shorter than the last three somites
ogether. The pre-anal tubular part is nearly twice as long as the
ost-anal. The latter has concave sides converging to a narrow
pex bearing a pair of minute spines. There are no lateral spines
r teeth.

The antennules have the distal segment of the peduncle
onsiderably longer than the preceding. The first legs are broken
o all the specimens examined. The basis has some small teeth
u its lower surface. The second leg has a strong spine proceeding
rom the inner surface of the ischium.

1In my paper on Irish Cumacea (Fisheries Ireland Sc. Invest. 1904 N: 1
905) pp. 12, 44). I accidentally omitted to notice that this species had been
veorded from the Mediterranean.

| 29*
\

i
430 W. T. Calman

The next two pairs of legs are moderately stout and a little
more than 2/; of the length of the carapace. The basis is less than
half the length of the leg and bears, close to its proximal end, a
rudimentary unjointed exopod in the form of a curved, conical —
papilla. The last thoracic somite is without appendages in all the —
specimens examined.

The peduncle of the uropods (fig. 45) is shorter than the telson
and less than 11/, times the length of the exopod. The endopod
is slightly less than 2/, the length of the exopod and is divided into
three segments.

Remarks. In having the pre-anal part of the telson very
distinctly longer than the post-anal the species described above
agrees with Diastylis longipes, D. josephine, D. erimaceus and D.
insignis of Sars, D. costata of Bonnier, D. cingulata of CALMAN, —
and also with the Leptostylis lorspneaeaat and Diastylopsis (?) dubia
of Bonnter. From all these species it is separated by the long
spines of the carapace. It is unlikely that the absence of the last
pair of legs will prove to be a permanent character of the species
(ef. Carman, Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904 N: 1 [1905] p. 40)
and it is possible that the presence of rudimentary exopods on the
third and fourth legs is also a character of immaturity, or, at all
events, is unreliable as a generic distinction (BonnteR, Ann. Ui
Lyon Tome 26 Campagne du Caudan, p. 561). I have therefore
placed the species, for the present, in the genus Diastylis. It is
possible that this may be the species recorded by Sig. Lo Branco
as D. spinulosa Heller. <

Occurrence. — Stations 39 and 44. Depth 1000—1100 ua

  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
  
 
  
  

 

Diastyloides serrata G. O. Sars.

Occurrence. — Stations 17, 18, 26, 29, 39, 44.
100—1100 metres.

Diastyloides sp.

A species of this genus which appears to be new is represel
only by immature and mutilated specimens. It is closely alli
D. serrata, from which however it differs in the shorter and blu
rostrum and in the presence of a pair of denticles on the dorsa
surface of the frontal lobe of the carapace.
Occurrence. — Stations 8 and 29. Depth 100 and 120 me
The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 431

Leptostylis macrura G. O. Sars.
L. macrura, G. O. Sars, Crust. Norway Vol. 3 1900 p. 69, pl. 49.
Three males and one female of this species were found.
Occurrence. — Station 25. Depth 200 metres.

Diastylopsis sp.

A number of specimens, most of which are immature, appa-
rently belong to the undescribed species of this genus already
recorded from the West of Ireland (Cauman, Fisheries Ireland Sc.
Invest. 1904 N: 1 [1905] p. 48).

Occurrence. — Stations 17, 29, 39, 44. Depth 100—
1100 metres.

Explanation of Figures.
Plate 27.

Fig. 1. Leucon longirostris, sub-adult Female, from the side. X 21.
Fig. 2. Anterior portion of carapace and pseudorostrum.

Fig. 3. Last two thoracic somites and basal portions of the legs.
Pig. 4. Antennule.

Pig. 5. Last somite and uropod.

Pig. 6. Leucon longirostris, adult Male, from the side. > 21.

Fig. 7. Anterior portion of carapace and pseudorostrum.

Pig. 8. Last somite and uropod.

Pig. 9. Leucon siphonatus, Antennule of adult female.

Pig. 10. Cumellopsis Puritani, adult Male, from the side (appendages omitted).
x 29.

Pig. 11. Cephalothoracie region from above.

Pig. 12. Last somite and uropod.

Pig. 13. Procampylaspis armata, immature Female, from the side (appendages
omitted). 22.

Pig. 14, The same, from above.

Pig. 15. Last two somites and uropod.

Fig. 16. Adult Male, from the side (appendages omitted). >< 22.

fig.17. The same, from above.

Fig. 18. Anterior part of carapace, with ocular lobe and pseudorostrum, from
above.

Fig. 19. Sub-adult male, Peduncle of antenna.

Fig. 20. Adult male, last two somites and uropod.

Pig. 21. Procampylaspis Bonnieri, adult Female, from the side (appendages
omitted). >< 37.

Pig. 22. The same, from above.

Fig. 23. Last two somites and uropod.

Pig. 24. Adult Male, from the side (appendages omitted). >< 37.
432

Fig.
Fig.
Fig.

Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.

28.
29,
30.
31.
32.
33.
34,
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44,
45.

=

 

W. T. Calman, The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition.

The same, from above.
Pedunele of antenna.
Last two somites and uropod. ’

Plate 28.

Campylaspis vitrea, sub-adult Female, from the side. > 22.
The same, from above.

Last three somites, a from above, } from the side.

First leg.

Second leg.

a Third leg, 6 Fifth leg.

Uropod.

Campylaspis spinosa, sub-adult Female, from the pe << 27. +
The same from above.

First maxilliped.

Second maxilliped.

Third maxilliped.

First leg.

Second leg.

aThird, 6 fourth, e¢ fifth leg.

Last somite and uropod.

Diastylis capreensis, young Female, from the side. 24.
Last somite, telson and uropod.

 
411

The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition.
By

W. T. Calman, D. Se.

British Museum (Natural History).

 

With plates 27 and 28.

The Cumacea dealt with in this paper were collected by the
late Herr F. A. Krupp during the cruise of his yacht Puritan in
the neighbourhood of Capri in 1902, and were entrusted to me for
examination by the kindness of Dr. Anron Donen.

The collections obtained by the Puritan have already formed

the subject of a paper by Dr. Lo Branco (Mitth. Stat. Neapel
1903 16. Bd. pp. 109—278 Taf. 7—9), in which a number of
Cumacea are recorded. Of the nineteen species which are there
named, some, I understand, were identified by Prof. G. O. Sars
and some by Dr. Lo Branco himself. Certain of the specimens
Sent to me were accompanied by labels in the handwriting of Prof.
Sars and it need hardly be said that I have found no reason to
dispute the correctness of the identifications. On the other hand
there are on Dr. Lo Branco’s list the following six species of which
Tean discover no specimens in the collection sent to me:
_ Leucon nasica Kroyer, LD. fulvus G. O. Sars, Campylaspis
horrida G. O. Sars, C. undata G. O. Sars, C. costata G. O. Sars,
Diastylis spinulosa Heller.
It is to be regretted that the authority for the identification of
these species was not given as some doubt must remain as to their
oceurrence in the Mediterranean’.
f Thave recently reported on a large collection of Cumacea from the
West of Ireland (Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904. N: 1 (1905)) and it is
interest to compare the results with those set forth in the present paper.

 
 
  
 
 
    
 
   
   
   

4 1It need hardly be pointed out that Diastylis serrata and Diastyloides
errata of Dr. Lo Branco’s list (l. ¢. p. 256) are one and the same species.
_ Mittheilungen a. a. Zool. Station zu Neapel. Bd. 17. 28
412 W. T. Calman

   

Species obtained by the Helga off
the West of Ireland.
Depth 50-382 fath. (about 90-700 metres).

Species obtained by the Puritan near
Capri. Depth 100—1200 metres.

Cyclaspis longicaudata

Bathycuma brevirostris
Leucon pallidus .

-  longirostris.

-  siphonatus .

Cumella sp.

Nannastacus unguiculatus
- longirostris.
Cumellopsis puritanit n. sp.

Procampylaspis armata

- bonniert n. sp.

Campylaspis glabra .

- verrucosa .
- sulcata

- macrophthalma.
- vitrea 0. sp.
- spinosa Ni. Sp.

Hemilamprops cristata
Platyaspis typica

 

Cyclaspis longicaudata.
Cyclaspoides Sarsi.
Vauntompsonia cristata.
Bathycuma brevirostris.
Leucon pallidus.

Leucon siphonatus.
Budorella truncatula.
- hispida.
Cumella pygmea.

- — gracillima.

Nannastacus unguiculatus.
Cumellopsis helge.

Platycuma holti.
Procampylaspis armata.

Campylaspis glabra. :
- nitens. a
- verrucosa. 1
- sulcata. /
= rostrata. =

Ceratocuma horrida. va
Hemilamprops rosea.
. uniplicata.
= cristata,
Platyaspis typica.
- — orbieularis,
Diastylis cornuta. Rs
- Josephine.
-  echinata. -
|

The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. ATS

Species obtained by the Helga off
the West of Ireland.
Depth 50-382 fath. (about 90-700 metres).
Diastylis insignis. . . ... . Diastylis insignis.
- capreensis 1. 8p.

Species obtained by the Puritan near
Capri. Depth 100-1200 metres.

- — tubulicauda.
Diastyloides serrata . . . . . Diastyloides serrata.
- biplicata.
- sp.
Leptostylis macrura . . . . . Leptostylis macrura.
= longimana.
Wiastjlopsis sp. . . . . . . . Diastylopsis sp.

It will be seen from this table that, of the 25 species recorded
from depths exceeding 100 metres in the Mediterranean, 15 occur
at corresponding depths off the West of Ireland. There is little
doubt that further collecting will add considerably to the number
of species common to both regions. At the same time the amount
of collecting which has been done off the Irish coast is sufficient
to make it probable that no very common and generally distributed
species has been overlooked. It is for this reason that I would
attach special importance to the cases of species occurring in the
Mediterranean which have not been taken off the Irish coast. Of
these, Lewcon longirostris, which is one of the most abundant species
in the present collection, has previously been recorded from off the
coast of Portugal and from the entrance to Dayis Straits. It has

_ not been found hitherto, however, at depths less than 500 fathoms

(about 900 metres) and as the Helga collections examined by me did
not extend below 400 fathoms it is possible that its special habitat
had not been reached. Apart from this and from the new species,
which may be found hereafter to have a wider distribution, the only
Species occurring in the Puritan but not in the Helga collections are
Nannastacus longirostris and Campylaspis macrophthalma. Neither
of these has hitherto been found elsewhere than in the Mediterranean.
Both were obtained in comparatively shallow water (100—200 metres)
and it is quite probable that they have a less extensive range than
have the species from deeper water.

The types of the new species described in this paper have been
presented by Dr. Anron Dourn to the British Museum (Natural
History).

28*

 
414 W. T. Calman

Family Bodotriidae.
Cyclaspis longicaudata G. O. Sars.
C. longicaudata, G. O. Sars, Crust. Norway Vol. 3 1899 p. 16,
pls. 7 and 8.

No specimens from station 8 were in the collection sent to
me. Dr. Lo Branco however records young specimens from this
station, the depth of which, 120 metres, is considerably less than
any hitherto recorded for the species. The specimens of both sexes
are all immature,

Occurrence. — Stations [8] 17, 18, 23, 26, 39, |44. Depth
120—1100 metres.

    
  
  
 
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
  

Family Vauntompsoniidae.
Bathycuma brevirostris (Norman).
Leucon brevirostris, Norman, Ann. Mag. N. H. (5) Vol. 3 1879
Doi,
Vaunthompsonia caeca, Boxnter, Ann. Univ. Lyon Tome 26 1896,
p- 536, pl. 28 fig. 3. f
Bathycuma brevirostris, CALMAN, Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904
N: 1 (1905) p. 18. ‘
All the specimens are immature. The largest, a female, mea-_
sures a little over 8 mm. in length. 4
Occurrence. — Stations 17, 18, 26, 39, 44. Depth 950—
1100 metres. i
Family Leuconidae.

Leucon pallidus G. 0. Sars.

Catman, Fisheries Ireland Sc. Invest. 1904 N:1 (19
palg;
Four immature specimens agreeing with those from the West
of Ireland which I have referred to this species.
Occurrence. — Station 29. Depth 100 metres.

Leucon longirostris G. O. Sars (Pl. 27, figs. 1—8).

L. longirostris, G. O. Sars, Svenska Vet. Akad. Handl. 9. Bd. 1871.
No. 13 p. 42 fig. 75. Norman, Ann. Mag. N. H. (5) Vol. 3
1879 p. 69.
Description of sub-adult female (fig. 1). Total leng
5,7 mm. “4
The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 415

Carapace (including pseudo-rostrum) about 34/, times in total
length, the dorsal crest horizontal posteriorly, strongly curved
downwards in front and armed in its anterior two-thirds with about
seven stout curved teeth, well separated and diminishing in size
posteriorly. Pseudorostrum (fig. 2) more than 1/; of total length
of carapace, straight, tapering to an acute point and directed slightly
upwards. The lower margin bears two or three more or less distinct
teeth near the base. Antero-lateral margin nearly straight with a
narrow but deep antennal notch above which bears three or four
stout teeth. Antero-lateral angle not produced but bearing a strong
tooth, followed by a series of successively diminishing teeth on the
lower margin. The pleural plate of the penultimate thoracic
somite is produced into a sharp curved tooth posteriorly, and there
is a pair of curved teeth on the sternal surface of the last thoracic
somite (not one as stated by Norman) a little in front of the in-
sertion of the last pair of legs (fig. 3). The abdomen is about
equal in length to the cephalothoracie region.

The antennules (fig. 4) have the outer flagellum composed
of three segments, the first equal in length to the last segment of
the peduncle and the terminal one very small. The inner flagellum
is unsegmented and is equal in length to the first segment of the
outer. It bears several long and rather stout sete at the tip.

There is a row of strong teeth on the lower surface of the basis of
the first legs. Uropods (fig. 5) a little shorter than the last two
somites together, the peduncle longer by one quarter than the last
Somite, carrying about five spines on its inner edge. Endopod one-
third longer than the peduncle, the proximal segment more than
three times as long as the distal. Fifteen spines on inner edge of
proximal and five on distal segment besides the stout terminal spine.
One long and several short setze on outer margin. Exopod a little
longer than first segment of endopod, bearing set on both margins
and a group on the apex.

Adult male (fig. 6). Total length 6,0 mm. Carapace 1/, of
total length, the dorsal crest unarmed. Pseudorostrum (fig. 7)
1/, of total length of carapace, horizontal and obliquely truncate.
The lower angle bears one or two teeth. Antero-lateral margin straight
and yertical, without antennal notch, with two teeth above near
base of pseudorostrum. Tooth on antero-lateral angle followed by
@ series of serrations on anterior part of lower margin.

The pleural plate of the penultimate thoracic somite is not
416 W. T. Calman

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
   
 
    
   
 
   

produced posteriorly, but the sternal surface of the last somite
bears two curved teeth as in the female. The outer flagellum of
the antennules is composed of four segments. As in the female the
inner flagellum is equal in length to the first segment of the outer.
Uropods (fig. 8) considerably longer than the last two somites
together, peduncle about one-third longer than the last somite with
about nine long spines and sete on its inner edge. Endopod nearly
one-half longer than peduncle, the proximal segment four times as
long as the distal. There are very numerous spines of varying
length on the inner edge and a few on the outer edge. Exopod not
quite as long as the first segment of endopod.
temarks. —— This species was described by Sars from a
fragmentary and immature male specimen. Norman added some
details from a female specimen, probably also immature. The —
females and young in the present collection resemble closely Sars’ —
very characteristic figure and some of the specimens sent to me
bore labels in Prof. Sars’ handwriting. There can, therefore, be |
no question as to the identification, although Sars’ description
the inner ramus of the antennule as “rudimenter og knudeformig” —
is at variance with the characters of the specimens examined by me. —
Occurrence. — Stations 17, 18, 26, 30, 39, 44, 57. Depth |
950—1200 metres. i {
Distribution. — Off coast of Portugal, 550 fathoms (Sars) ;
at entrance of Davis Straits, 1750 fathoms (NoRMAN).

Leucon siphonatus Calman (PI. 27 fig. 9). :

L. siphonatus, CAuMAN, Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904 N:
(1905) p. 19, pl. 1 figg. 2—4. 4
This species, which was described from a single immatu

Unfortunately nearly all the specimens are in poor condition and I
am therefore unable to add much of importance to the description
already given. The Mediterranean specimens are much smal
than that from Ireland. A female with brood-pouch well develope
measures only 2.7 mm., while the type-specimen, though immatu
is 3.85 mm. in length. The structural differences however are §
slight that there can hardly be any hesitation in referring them
the same species. The Naples specimens have generally two teet
The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 417

of the pseudorostrum, the teeth on the anterior margin, above the
antennal notch, are longer than in the type-specimen, and those on
the lower edge of the pseudorostrum are apparently not always
present. The most important difference, however, is in the pro-
portions of the antennule. In the younger specimens this
appendage agrees fairly well with the figure and description already
given. In those approaching maturity, however, and in the adult
female (fig. 9) it is much more slender, with the last segment of
the peduncle longer by about '/; than the preceding and a little
longer than the external flagellum. The branchial siphon is in some
cases protruded to a greater length than in the type-specimen,
sometimes to considerably more than the length of the carapace.
At the tip of the endopod of the uropods what was described as
a “long slender spine” is in reality a stout, plumose seta and, in
addition to the spine at the base of this seta, the distal segment
of the endopod has three spines on its inner edge.

The adult male specimens are unfortunately fragmentary. No
teeth appear on the dorsal edge of the carapace nor on the lower
edge of the pseudorostrum. Save for the absence of the antennal
notch, the armature of the antero-lateral margin of the carapace
seems not to differ greatly from that of the female.

In referring to L. tenwirostris, Sars, as the only species
agreeing with the present one in having a large inner ramus on
the antennule, I overlooked Zimmer’s L. septemdentatus (Hamburger
Magalhaensische Sammelreise, Cumacea 1902 p. 3) which however
is distinguished by the widely open antennal notch and other
characters. As has been shown above L. longirostris Sars must
now be added to the same group of species.

Occurrence. — Stations 8, 17, 18, 26, 29, 44. Depth 100—
1100 metres.

Family Nannastacidae.
Cumella sp.

Two female specimens which, though nearly or fully adult
measure only about 1,75 mm. in total length, occurred at Station 29.
They appear to differ in certain characters from all the described
Species of the genus, but as neither of them is in a very good
state of preservation I have not thought it advisable to attempt to
diagnose the species.

7"
418 W. T. Calman

Occurrence. — Station 29. Depth 100 metres.

  
  
   
 
   
  
    
 
   
   
     
 
 
   
    
    

Nannastacus unguiculatus Spence Bate.
N. unguiculatus, G. O. Sars, Arch. Math. Nat. 4. Bd. 1879 p. 109,
pls. 55—57.

Four female specimens are referred to this species, but as
they are extremely dirty and otherwise in poor condition their exact
agreement in all details with each other or with the published
descriptions cannot be asserted. One of them at least has the
spines on the surface of the carapace more numerous and longer
and all of them have the antero-lateral angle less produced than in
Sars’ figure.

Occurrence.

 

Station 25. Depth 200 metres.

Nannastacus longirostris G. O. Sars.
N. longirostris, G. O. Sars, Arch. Math. Nat. 4. Bd. 1879 p. 119,
pls. 58, 59.

A single male specimen of this peculiar species was obtained.
It agrees well with Sars’ figures in almost all characters visible
without dissection but the antennules are considerably longer and
more slender.

Occurrence. — Station 29. Depth 100 metres.

Distribution. — Spezia, 6—10 fathoms (Sars).

Cumellopsis Puritani n. sp. (pl. 27 figs. 10—12).

Five specimens in the present collection resemble very closely |

the species which I have described under the name C. helge
(Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904 N: 1 (1905) p. 28) but present
differences which seem to forbid, for the present, their identification
with that species. The type specimens of C. helge are an adu :
female and an immature male, while the present form is represente
by adult and immature males. Comparing the immature specimens
of the two the following are the chief differences to be observed.
The size of the Mediterranean specimens is much less, the largest
immature male measuring 2.7 mm. against 4.7 mm. in the Irish
specimens and the adult male (fig. 10) about 3.6 mm. while the s
adult female formerly described measures 5.8 mm. The longitudina
depression on the side of the carapace is bounded below by —
sharply marked ridge or fold which is conspicuous even in
youngest specimens. In the type-specimens of C. helge this rid
is represented by a low rounded swelling which only at its anter'
