The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 429

The specimens which I have referred to this species are very
agmentary and there may be some little doubt as to the identi-
sation. Dr. Lo Branco has recorded the species from Station 57,
1 the evidence of a specimen which may have been better preserved
an any of those seen by me}.

Occurrence. — Stations 26, 39,57. Depths 1000-1100 metres.

Diastylis capreensis nu. sp. (pl. 28 figs. 44, 45).
Description of young Female (fig. 44). Total length 5.2 mm.
The carapace is less than 1/; of the total length, inflated,

ith the dorsal surface strongly arched and declivous anteriorly.
he pseudorostrum is moderately long, horizontal and acute. There
-no eye. The surface of the carapace carries a number of long
yines varying a little in arrangement in different specimens and
ot always symmetrical on the two sides. They are arranged on
ie dorsal surface in two longitudinal rows which diverge widely
anteriorly. The largest of these spines are a pair placed on the
ighest point of the dorsal surface and one on each side just behind
1e base of the rostrum. In addition there are a few spines on the
nterior part of the side of the carapace. The lower margin is
ecupied by a series of teeth becoming spiniform anteriorly.

The last thoracic somite has the postero-lateral angles produced
ito spiniform teeth projecting downwards, and has two pairs of
enticles on the dorsal surface. The first abdominal somite has one
air and the last two somites have several denticles on the dorsal
urface.

The telson (fig. 45) is shorter than the last three somites
ogether. The pre-anal tubular part is nearly twice as long as the
ost-anal. The latter has concave sides converging to a narrow
pex bearing a pair of minute spines. There are no lateral spines
r teeth.

The antennules have the distal segment of the peduncle
onsiderably longer than the preceding. The first legs are broken
o all the specimens examined. The basis has some small teeth
u its lower surface. The second leg has a strong spine proceeding
rom the inner surface of the ischium.

1In my paper on Irish Cumacea (Fisheries Ireland Sc. Invest. 1904 N: 1
905) pp. 12, 44). I accidentally omitted to notice that this species had been
veorded from the Mediterranean.

| 29*
\

i
