The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 419

end, close to the antero-lateral corner, becomes sharply defined.
The antennal notch is more widely open than in the specimen
formerly figured but this is doubtless a sexual character. The
antero-lateral angle is less acute in the present specimens, but this
character also varies with age and sex and is moreover subject to
great apparent alteration with a slight change in the position in
which the specimen is viewed. The antennules, antenne and
legs are all a little more slender than in the immature male from
which these appendages were figured. The antennal flagella are
not complete in any of the specimens but their appearance suggests
that they do not attain the length of the body. The sides of the
abdominal somites are not grooved for their reception. The uropods
(fig. 12) have the peduncle shorter and the rami longer than in the
Irish specimens. Thus while in immature males of both forms the
uropods are longer by about 1/, than the last two somites together,
in the Mediterranean specimen the endopod is nearly equal to the
peduncle (24:27) but in the Irish specimen it is not 2/; of that length
(16:27). In the adult male the endopod is nearly */, of the length
of the peduncle. In the shape and proportions of the segments of
the other appendages no noteworthy differences from the types of
C. helge appear to exist.

Occurrence. — Station 17, 18, 39, 44. Depth 950—
1100 metres.

Procampylaspis.

This genus was founded by Bonnier for the reception of two
forms which he regarded as distinct species, P. armata and P. echi-
nata. J have already suggested (Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904
N: 1 [1905] p. 33) that these two species must be united, the first
being described from a young male and the second from an adult
male specimen. A new species occurs in the present collection and
is described below.

Procampylaspis armata Bonnier (pl. 27 figs. 13—20).

P. armata, Bonnier, Ann. Univ. Lyon Tome 26 1896, Campagne
du Caudan p. 541 pl. 29 fig. 1 [Immature G).

P. echinata, Bonnier, |. ¢. p. 544, pl. 29 fig. 2 [Adult g}.

Description of immature female (figs. 13, 14). Total
length 3.5 mm.

i.
