The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 421

addition to it there is on the dorsal surface near the hind margin
of the carapace a pair of small teeth. On each side of the cara-
pace, a little way above the lower edge a row of about six teeth
runs forward from the hind margin for about 1/, of the length of
the carapace. The ocular lobe (fig. 18) resembles that of the female.
The texture of the carapace is coarsely cellular, as figured by
Bonnier in P. echinata. The first and second leg-bearing somites
are not produced into dorsal teeth as they are in the female but
there is a pair of tubercles on the dorsal surface of each of the
somites from the second to the fifth. The pleural plates of the last
four somites are expanded and each is armed with a marginal row
of spiniform teeth.

The first five abdominal somites are granulated on the dorsal
surface, the granules becoming spiniform laterally where a very
distinct row above and a less distinct one below define on each
somite a lateral groove apparently for the reception of the antennal
flagellum. The last segment of the antennal pedunele (fig. 19) is
nearly twice as long as the preceding.

The peduncle of the uropods (fig. 20) is longer by nearly 1/,
than the last two somites together and has on its inner edge a series
of plumose set increasing in length towards the distal end. The
endopod is a little less than half the length of the peduncle with
eight spines on its inner edge. The terminal spine is slender. The
exopod is shorter than the endopod.

Young males agree in general characters with the female
described above. The carapace shows a fine vermiculate texture.
_ Remarks. — The females and young males described above
agree with Bonnrer’s figures and description of his P. armata with
sufficient closeness to leave little doubt of their identity with his
species. That the adult males belong to the same species is almost
certain, and their identification with Bonnter’s P. echinata is highly
probable, though there are some important differences from BonnieR’s
account. He describes the surface of the carapace as presenting
“ni poils ni épine @’aucune sorte” and he figures the upper surface
without any trace of an ocular lobe. {In view of the great difficulty
of observing such characters in specimens coated as they often are
with mud I think the differences may be neglected at least until
Specimens agreeing more closely with Bonnier’s account are dis-
covered. The case is somewhat complicated however by the aberrant
characters of the specimens from the West of Ireland which I have

hs
