430 W. T. Calman

The next two pairs of legs are moderately stout and a little
more than 2/; of the length of the carapace. The basis is less than
half the length of the leg and bears, close to its proximal end, a
rudimentary unjointed exopod in the form of a curved, conical —
papilla. The last thoracic somite is without appendages in all the —
specimens examined.

The peduncle of the uropods (fig. 45) is shorter than the telson
and less than 11/, times the length of the exopod. The endopod
is slightly less than 2/, the length of the exopod and is divided into
three segments.

Remarks. In having the pre-anal part of the telson very
distinctly longer than the post-anal the species described above
agrees with Diastylis longipes, D. josephine, D. erimaceus and D.
insignis of Sars, D. costata of Bonnier, D. cingulata of CALMAN, —
and also with the Leptostylis lorspneaeaat and Diastylopsis (?) dubia
of Bonnter. From all these species it is separated by the long
spines of the carapace. It is unlikely that the absence of the last
pair of legs will prove to be a permanent character of the species
(ef. Carman, Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904 N: 1 [1905] p. 40)
and it is possible that the presence of rudimentary exopods on the
third and fourth legs is also a character of immaturity, or, at all
events, is unreliable as a generic distinction (BonnteR, Ann. Ui
Lyon Tome 26 Campagne du Caudan, p. 561). I have therefore
placed the species, for the present, in the genus Diastylis. It is
possible that this may be the species recorded by Sig. Lo Branco
as D. spinulosa Heller. <

Occurrence. — Stations 39 and 44. Depth 1000—1100 ua

  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
  
 
  
  

 

Diastyloides serrata G. O. Sars.

Occurrence. — Stations 17, 18, 26, 29, 39, 44.
100—1100 metres.

Diastyloides sp.

A species of this genus which appears to be new is represel
only by immature and mutilated specimens. It is closely alli
D. serrata, from which however it differs in the shorter and blu
rostrum and in the presence of a pair of denticles on the dorsa
surface of the frontal lobe of the carapace.
Occurrence. — Stations 8 and 29. Depth 100 and 120 me
