The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 423

dorsal surface of the carapace is occupied by a group of rather
large curved spines (about 10) not quite symmetrically arranged on
each side of the middle line. On each side a little way above the
lower margin of the carapace a closely set row of spines extends
from the antero-lateral corner to the hind margin. There are a
pair of small spines at the tip of the pseudorostrum above, There
is no ocular lobe except for a very small pointed median process
on the front of the cephalic lobe.

The texture of the carapace is coarsely cellular.

There is a pair of dorsal spines on each of the last three
thoracic somites. The pleural plates of the last four somites are
expanded and armed with marginal teeth. The abdominal somites
are smooth and each of the first four bears near the anterior end
a pair of straight spines sloping forwards on the dorsal surface and
a pair of small sharp spines on each side. The outline of the fifth
(fig. 27) somite is similar to that of the female. The last two
segments of the antennal peduncle (fig. 26) are subequal in length.

The peduncle of the uropods (fig. 27) is equal to or a very
little longer than the last two somites together and has a series of
short sete on its inner edge. The endopod is 2/3 of the length of
the peduncle and has six spines on its inner edge. The exopod is
about 4/; of the length of the endopod. Young specimens of
both sexes agree in general characters with the female.

Remarks. — This species is distinguished from the preceding
in both sexes by the absence of the ocular lobe, by the slight but
characteristic and constant difference in the outline of the penultimate
‘somite and by the relatively longer rami of the uropods. In the
female the absence of the dorsal spine of the carapace and in the
male the different armature of the carapace and abdomen are well
marked distinctive features. The appendages agree, except in some
trifling details, with those of P. armata.

Occurrence. — Stations 17, 18, 26, 30, 39, 44. Depth
950—1200 metres.

Campylaspis glabra G. O. Sars.
C. glabra, G. O. Sars, Arch. Math. Nat. 4. Bd. 1879 p. 77, pls. 44—
47; id. Crust. Norway Vol. 3 1900 p. 86, pl. 58.
The specimens referred to this species are, for the most part,
immature. Even nearly adult specimens however are smaller than
the Mediterranean specimens recorded by Prof. Sars, a female with

ie
