The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 417

of the pseudorostrum, the teeth on the anterior margin, above the
antennal notch, are longer than in the type-specimen, and those on
the lower edge of the pseudorostrum are apparently not always
present. The most important difference, however, is in the pro-
portions of the antennule. In the younger specimens this
appendage agrees fairly well with the figure and description already
given. In those approaching maturity, however, and in the adult
female (fig. 9) it is much more slender, with the last segment of
the peduncle longer by about '/; than the preceding and a little
longer than the external flagellum. The branchial siphon is in some
cases protruded to a greater length than in the type-specimen,
sometimes to considerably more than the length of the carapace.
At the tip of the endopod of the uropods what was described as
a “long slender spine” is in reality a stout, plumose seta and, in
addition to the spine at the base of this seta, the distal segment
of the endopod has three spines on its inner edge.

The adult male specimens are unfortunately fragmentary. No
teeth appear on the dorsal edge of the carapace nor on the lower
edge of the pseudorostrum. Save for the absence of the antennal
notch, the armature of the antero-lateral margin of the carapace
seems not to differ greatly from that of the female.

In referring to L. tenwirostris, Sars, as the only species
agreeing with the present one in having a large inner ramus on
the antennule, I overlooked Zimmer’s L. septemdentatus (Hamburger
Magalhaensische Sammelreise, Cumacea 1902 p. 3) which however
is distinguished by the widely open antennal notch and other
characters. As has been shown above L. longirostris Sars must
now be added to the same group of species.

Occurrence. — Stations 8, 17, 18, 26, 29, 44. Depth 100—
1100 metres.

Family Nannastacidae.
Cumella sp.

Two female specimens which, though nearly or fully adult
measure only about 1,75 mm. in total length, occurred at Station 29.
They appear to differ in certain characters from all the described
Species of the genus, but as neither of them is in a very good
state of preservation I have not thought it advisable to attempt to
diagnose the species.

7"
