|

The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. ATS

Species obtained by the Helga off
the West of Ireland.
Depth 50-382 fath. (about 90-700 metres).
Diastylis insignis. . . ... . Diastylis insignis.
- capreensis 1. 8p.

Species obtained by the Puritan near
Capri. Depth 100-1200 metres.

- — tubulicauda.
Diastyloides serrata . . . . . Diastyloides serrata.
- biplicata.
- sp.
Leptostylis macrura . . . . . Leptostylis macrura.
= longimana.
Wiastjlopsis sp. . . . . . . . Diastylopsis sp.

It will be seen from this table that, of the 25 species recorded
from depths exceeding 100 metres in the Mediterranean, 15 occur
at corresponding depths off the West of Ireland. There is little
doubt that further collecting will add considerably to the number
of species common to both regions. At the same time the amount
of collecting which has been done off the Irish coast is sufficient
to make it probable that no very common and generally distributed
species has been overlooked. It is for this reason that I would
attach special importance to the cases of species occurring in the
Mediterranean which have not been taken off the Irish coast. Of
these, Lewcon longirostris, which is one of the most abundant species
in the present collection, has previously been recorded from off the
coast of Portugal and from the entrance to Dayis Straits. It has

_ not been found hitherto, however, at depths less than 500 fathoms

(about 900 metres) and as the Helga collections examined by me did
not extend below 400 fathoms it is possible that its special habitat
had not been reached. Apart from this and from the new species,
which may be found hereafter to have a wider distribution, the only
Species occurring in the Puritan but not in the Helga collections are
Nannastacus longirostris and Campylaspis macrophthalma. Neither
of these has hitherto been found elsewhere than in the Mediterranean.
Both were obtained in comparatively shallow water (100—200 metres)
and it is quite probable that they have a less extensive range than
have the species from deeper water.

The types of the new species described in this paper have been
presented by Dr. Anron Dourn to the British Museum (Natural
History).

28*

 
