422 W. T. Calman

referred to this species (Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904 N: 1
[1905] p. 33). The Irish specimens are smaller in size and the
texture of the carapace in adults and young of both sexes is coarsely
*cellular® as in the adult males described above. The median
dorsal spine in all the specimens which have preserved it unbroken
is bifid at the tip while in the few perfect Mediterranean specimens
it is simple. I can observe no other differences, but the Irish
specimens are coated with mud and not in a favourable state for
examination. For the present they may be referred to the same
species.

Occurrence. — Stations 18, 25, 26, 39, 44, 57. Depth 200—
1100 metres.

   
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
     
 
   
   

Procampylaspis Bonnieri nu. sp. (pl. 27 fig. 21—27).

Description of adult Female (fig. 21 and 22), total length
2.3 mm.

Carapace a little more than 2/; of total length, inflated,
narrowed in front as seen from above. Seen from the side the
dorsal outline is moderately arched, with a slight depression near
the posterior end. The pseudorostrum is a little longer and more
acute than in P. armata. The antero-lateral corner is serrated with
three or four fine teeth. There are no teeth or spines on the sur-
face of the carapace. There is no distinct ocular lobe. The cephalic
lobe is produced into a small triangular median process in front of
which the lateral plates meet for the whole length of the pseudo-
rostrum.

The first and second leg-bearing somites are produced dorsally _
into bifid laminar teeth like those of P. avmata, that of the second
somite however being curved forwards like the first. The pleural
plates of the thoracie somites are expanded, rounded and unarmed.

The abdominal somites are smooth. The penultimate !
somite (fig. 23) is widest at about its anterior third, narrowing in —
front and behind. {

The peduncle of the uropods (fig. 23) is equal in length to —
the last two somites together and is 1'/, times as long as the endo- |
pod. The latter bears three spines on its inner edge and the
terminal spine is long and curved. The exopod is little more 1
3, the length of the endopod.

Adult male (figs. 24 and 25), total length 2.8 mm. Resemblin;
in general form the male of P. armata. The posterior part of
