416 W. T. Calman

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
   
 
    
   
 
   

produced posteriorly, but the sternal surface of the last somite
bears two curved teeth as in the female. The outer flagellum of
the antennules is composed of four segments. As in the female the
inner flagellum is equal in length to the first segment of the outer.
Uropods (fig. 8) considerably longer than the last two somites
together, peduncle about one-third longer than the last somite with
about nine long spines and sete on its inner edge. Endopod nearly
one-half longer than peduncle, the proximal segment four times as
long as the distal. There are very numerous spines of varying
length on the inner edge and a few on the outer edge. Exopod not
quite as long as the first segment of endopod.
temarks. —— This species was described by Sars from a
fragmentary and immature male specimen. Norman added some
details from a female specimen, probably also immature. The —
females and young in the present collection resemble closely Sars’ —
very characteristic figure and some of the specimens sent to me
bore labels in Prof. Sars’ handwriting. There can, therefore, be |
no question as to the identification, although Sars’ description
the inner ramus of the antennule as “rudimenter og knudeformig” —
is at variance with the characters of the specimens examined by me. —
Occurrence. — Stations 17, 18, 26, 30, 39, 44, 57. Depth |
950—1200 metres. i {
Distribution. — Off coast of Portugal, 550 fathoms (Sars) ;
at entrance of Davis Straits, 1750 fathoms (NoRMAN).

Leucon siphonatus Calman (PI. 27 fig. 9). :

L. siphonatus, CAuMAN, Fisheries Ireland Se. Invest. 1904 N:
(1905) p. 19, pl. 1 figg. 2—4. 4
This species, which was described from a single immatu

Unfortunately nearly all the specimens are in poor condition and I
am therefore unable to add much of importance to the description
already given. The Mediterranean specimens are much smal
than that from Ireland. A female with brood-pouch well develope
measures only 2.7 mm., while the type-specimen, though immatu
is 3.85 mm. in length. The structural differences however are §
slight that there can hardly be any hesitation in referring them
the same species. The Naples specimens have generally two teet
