The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 427

[he antennal notch is obsolete and the lower margin curves upwards
o the pseudorostrum with hardly an indication of the antero-lateral
mgle. The whole surface of the carapace is set with small spines,
rather widely spaced, while on the dorsal surface on each side is a longi-
udinal row of about eight strong spines extending from the posterior
margin on to the side of the pseudorostrum. There are about six
very long sete on the dorsal surface. The anterior part of the
lower margin bears a series of curved spines. The first leg-bearing
somite is exposed only on the dorsal surface. The following
thoracic somites like those of the abdomen bear each a pair of
spines on the dorsal surface. The fifth abdominal somite has a
median dorsal spine about the middle of its length and the sixth,
which is distinctly broader than the preceding, has three spines on
the dorsal surface. The antennules (broken off in the specimen
figured) are rather long and stout, but appear to resemble those of
C. rubicunda as figured by Sars.

The mouth-parts resemble those of C. rubicunda very closely
but the molar process of the mandible is a little longer and more
slender, the palp of the maxillule carries two sete, and the maxilla
have six sete. The branchial apparatus is considerably reduced,
only three lobules being visible. The second maxillipeds (fig. 38)
differ from those of all species of the genus hitherto described in
having the ischium distinct; the terminal segment carries three
strong spines. Third maxillipeds (fig. 39) have strong teeth on the
margins of most of the segments, the merus is not expanded, hardly
broader than the succeeding segment and equal to the two sueceed-
ing segments in length. The plumose set on the end of the
merus extend to the tip of the limb.

The first legs (fig. 40) are moderately slender, the merus consi-
derably less than half the total length. The second legs (fig. 41)
have the merus less than ‘/; of the total length, the carpus serrated
on the outer edge and the dactylus equal in length to the two
preceding segments. The remaining legs (fig. 42) are rather stout.
Tn the third and fifth pairs the carpus bears two and in the fourth
three long sete.

The uropods (fig. 43) are slender and about equal in length
to the last four somites. The peduncle is more than twice the length
of the last somite, its margins not distinctly serrate. The exopod
is very slightly longer than the endopod and about half the length

of the peduncle. The endopod is armed with four spines which,
Mittheilungen a. d. Zool. Station zu Neapel. Bd. 17. 29

ie
