The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 425

Campylaspis vitrea n. sp. (pl. 28 figs. 23—34).

Description of sub-adult Female (figs. 28 and 29). Total
length 4.7 mm.

The carapace considerably exceeds half the total length and
is much elevated posteriorly. As in C. macrophthalma Sars the
side of the carapace bears two oblique keels, which, however, are
here elevated into laminar crests. At about 1/, the length of the
carapace from its hinder margin the upper lateral keels are con-
nected with each other across the dorsal surface by a straight
transverse keel and from the junction on each side a short keel
running downwards and backwards joins the lower lateral keel.
The transverse keel and the two short connecting keels form three
sides of a roughly quadrangular area sloping downwards and back-
wards, the posterior side of which is formed by a ridge running
just above the hinder margin of the carapace and forming, when
viewed from above, two broadly rounded lobes divided by a median
notch. Anteriorly the upper lateral keels curve inwards towards
the pseudorostrum without forming any distinct angle as they do in
C. macrophthalma. The short vertical ridge which in the species
named connects the two lateral ridges anteriorly is present, though
less prominent than the others. The posterior quadrangular area
mentioned above and the areas between the lateral keels on each
side are distinctly concave. The portion of the dorsal surface in
front of the transverse keel is nearly flat and does not rise above
the upper lateral keel as seen from the side. There is no eye and
-the ocular lobe is represented by a short and narrow process in
front of which the pseudorostral plates meet for about 1/, of the
length of the carapace. The pseudorostrum is long, rather
acutely pointed as seen from the side, with the dorsal outline
slightly convex. The antennal notch is obsolete and the antero-
lateral angle obtuse. All the keels of the carapace are finely
serrated.

The first three leg-bearing somites have transverse crests
dorsally; the last two have each a pair of cristiform teeth on the
dorsal surface.

The abdominal somites (fig. 30) are ornamented with thin
longitudinal ridges or crests which are finely and somewhat irre-
gularly serrate. The first four somites have paired dorsal, lateral
and yentro-lateral ridges. On the fifth somite the arrangement of

 
