The Cumacea of the Puritan Expedition. 415

Carapace (including pseudo-rostrum) about 34/, times in total
length, the dorsal crest horizontal posteriorly, strongly curved
downwards in front and armed in its anterior two-thirds with about
seven stout curved teeth, well separated and diminishing in size
posteriorly. Pseudorostrum (fig. 2) more than 1/; of total length
of carapace, straight, tapering to an acute point and directed slightly
upwards. The lower margin bears two or three more or less distinct
teeth near the base. Antero-lateral margin nearly straight with a
narrow but deep antennal notch above which bears three or four
stout teeth. Antero-lateral angle not produced but bearing a strong
tooth, followed by a series of successively diminishing teeth on the
lower margin. The pleural plate of the penultimate thoracic
somite is produced into a sharp curved tooth posteriorly, and there
is a pair of curved teeth on the sternal surface of the last thoracic
somite (not one as stated by Norman) a little in front of the in-
sertion of the last pair of legs (fig. 3). The abdomen is about
equal in length to the cephalothoracie region.

The antennules (fig. 4) have the outer flagellum composed
of three segments, the first equal in length to the last segment of
the peduncle and the terminal one very small. The inner flagellum
is unsegmented and is equal in length to the first segment of the
outer. It bears several long and rather stout sete at the tip.

There is a row of strong teeth on the lower surface of the basis of
the first legs. Uropods (fig. 5) a little shorter than the last two
somites together, the peduncle longer by one quarter than the last
Somite, carrying about five spines on its inner edge. Endopod one-
third longer than the peduncle, the proximal segment more than
three times as long as the distal. Fifteen spines on inner edge of
proximal and five on distal segment besides the stout terminal spine.
One long and several short setze on outer margin. Exopod a little
longer than first segment of endopod, bearing set on both margins
and a group on the apex.

Adult male (fig. 6). Total length 6,0 mm. Carapace 1/, of
total length, the dorsal crest unarmed. Pseudorostrum (fig. 7)
1/, of total length of carapace, horizontal and obliquely truncate.
The lower angle bears one or two teeth. Antero-lateral margin straight
and yertical, without antennal notch, with two teeth above near
base of pseudorostrum. Tooth on antero-lateral angle followed by
@ series of serrations on anterior part of lower margin.

The pleural plate of the penultimate thoracic somite is not
