7
420 W. T. Calman

Carapace over 2/s of the total length, slightly compressed, oval
in outline as seen from above. Seen from the side the dorsal
outline is moderately arched and the short pseudorostrum is sharply
turned upwards and nearly vertically truncated. The antennal notch
is small but distinct and the antero-lateral corner is produced into
a small blunt tooth, not broadly rounded as in Bonnier’s figure. —
The dorsal surface is not keeled but immediately behind the middle —
of its length it bears a strong median tooth. 5 4

There is no eye but a narrow ocular lobe with parallel sides
extends nearly to the end of the pseudorostrum. Seen from the side —
it is elevated above the dorsal outline towards the tip where it —
carries a pair of small tubercles.

The carapace is rather thin and transparent, with a faintly,
marked vermiculate texture.

The first leg-bearing somite is completely exposed. On the
dorsal surface its posterior edge is raised into a transverse lamina
produced and curving forwards in the middle line where it forms
a bifid tooth overlapping the hind margin of the carapace. The
second somite is produced into a similar tooth not so prominent and
not curved forwards. The pleural plates of the thoracic somites ai
unarmed, except for a few small granules. The last two somites
are granular on the dorsal surface.

The abdominal somites are all, except the last, beset wi
granules, especially on the dorsal and ventral surfaces.
penultimate somite (fig. 14) is hardly inflated anteriorly.
peduncle of the uropods (fig. 14) is about equal in length to
last two somites together and is twice the length of the endopod.
The latter bears three rather long spines on its inner edge and ¢
strong terminal spine with a small spinule external to its bas
The exopod is shorter than the endopod and has a long and slend
terminal spine.

Adult female. Only a single ovigerous female is in
collection and it is in a condition too bad for description or figurin
The somites of the abdomen however differ from those in immatut
specimens in being nearly smooth.

Adult male (figs. 16, 17) total length 4 mm.

Carapace a little less than 2/; of the total length, less d
than in the female. The antennal notch is shallow and wide
open and the antero-lateral corner is hardly produced. The medi
dorsal tooth is much less prominent than in the female, and

 
  
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
