 

426 W. T. Calman

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
 
   

the ridges is more complex, those on the anterior half of the
somite conforming to the plan of the preceding somites while the
posterior half has only a median dorsal and a pair of ventro-lateral
ridges. The last somite has a short median dorsal and a pair of
lateral ridges.

The appendages differ very little from those of C. macroph-
thalma as figured by Sars. The antennules have the second segment
of the peduncle distinctly longer than the third. The first legs
fig. 31) do not reach the antero-lateral angle of the carapace, but
their distal segments are relatively a little longer than in C. ma-
crophthalma. The second legs (fig. 32) are distinguished by the
great length of the terminal segment which is about */; of the whole
length of the limb. The remaining legs (fig. 33) are a little longer
and more slender than are those of C. macrophthalma but do not
differ in the relative proportions of the segments.

The uropods (fig. 34) are longer than in C. macrophthalma,
the peduncle being more than 24/, times the length of the last
somite and a little more than twice the length of the sub-equal
rami.

The integument over the whole of the body and limbs is very
thin and semitransparent allowing the outlines of the internal organs
to be seen.

Male. A single young male shows no marked differences in
external characters from the females described above.

Remarks. — This species resembles C. macrophthalma ut is
at once distinguished from that species by the different form of the
carapace, especially by the transverse ridge on the posterior part,
and by the ornamentation of the abdominal somites as well as by
the thin and semitransparent integument. 4

Occurrence. — Stations 18, 26, 39. Depth 950—1100 metres.

anal

Campylaspis spinosa x. sp. (pl. 28 figs. 35—43).
Description of sub-adult Female (figs. 35 and 36). Total —
length 3.1 mm.
The carapace is little more than half the total length and is

not very strongly arched above. The pseudorostrum is sharply up-
turned, its upper margin as seen from the side nearly at rig!
angles to the sloping anterior part of the dorsal surface of th
carapace. There is no eye and the ocular lobe is reduced to
narrow process reaching nearly to the tip of the pseudorost
